## Developments in bistatic and networked radar

This article presents a summary of developments in bistatic radars and its generalized cousin, networked radars. The article is of interest to me as a state-of-the-art review of bistatics and its extensions. Many of the articles submitted for this class have stuck to the bistatic theme. This review can be cataloged under future growth areas.

Its technical contribution serves as a high-level view of some related radar technologies while also noting the ongoing areas of challenge, directions for research, and opportunities. A helpful pointer is the insight that while bistatics have an inherent appeal that motivates research and demonstrator projects, the field will have to demonstrate tangible benefits in either performance or cost before it wedges firmly into the repertoire of fielded system. The author also provides some historical perspective by noting that bistatic radars actually predate their monostatic counterparts in the form of the British coastal warning system of World War II vintage. Further, he notes that their have been a few waves of interest surrounding bistatics and the possibilities, of which the last five years have been a resurgence. Advances in processors and accurate, ubiquitous positioning via GPS are seen as the key enablers that might lead the current wave to crest.

One of the opportunities that appeals to many is the ability to "hitchhike" off illuminators of opportunity presented by Passive Bistatic Radar (PBR). These are a class that use reflections of existing RF energy to pull out detections of airborne entities. An example is using HDTV as the illuminator - similar work has even done at the UW by John Sahr. Schemes involving using Wi-Fi signals for indoor applications have been proposed as well. One attraction of PBR is the elegance and efficiency associated with re-purposing and reusing portions of the crowded RF spectrum. However, these technologies are not without challenge. The scattered signal is very weak and the direct-path signal, from the illuminator, is nearly blinding. Additionally, the signal processing associated with pulling targets out of the random waveforms like HDTV is more than that required for tradition radar signal processing.

The challenges associated with bistatics are fertile fields for future research. For monostatic radars, the emitted signal leaves from and returns to the same place. Inherent in this architecture are many symmetries. Bistatics can be seen as a generalization of monostatic radars, where the scattered path of an illumination can be to an arbitrary point. Much research has attempted to create models with which to characterize various types of clutter - ground, sea, urban, forest, mountainous. For bistatics, in general, rather than two projections onto the same ray, calculations are required to compute four paths for each discrete clutter elements. Additionally, and related, is further development of the understanding of bistatic scattering. Again, most of the research heretofore has focused on scattering that reflects in the same direction the wave arrived. For bistatics, the problem is generalized to the other 359 degrees of scattering.

## Citation
H. Griffiths, "Developments in bistatic and networked radar," Proceedings of 2011 IEEE CIE International Conference on Radar, Chengdu, 2011, pp. 10-13.
