## Ambiguities in Bistatic Radar
In my previous review, on the topic of adaptive clutter cancellation in bistatic radars, where range dependencies create limits to the effectiveness of STAP algorithms that depend, in part, on jointly independent Gaussian interference, I noted that future work might include high-PRF considerations, where the doppler spectrum is relatively wide and the range limits create aliasing (known as ambiguities in radar parlance) that further complicates the problem. In this paper, the author addresses the problem and strategies to mitigate ambiguities.

In pulsed radar systems that employ phased arrays of antennas, the environment is sensed in three dimensions, producing three primary measurements with which to feed a target state estimator. The last, discussed first, is the spatial dimension. Multiple receive elements are array in a manner that enables extracting angle of arrival from the phase of incoming planar waves.

The first, and oldest, is the range dimension, also known as fast-time. This clock advances at the speed of the system's A/D sample rate. In ranging, distance to a target is measured by timing the return from a scattered echo and using knowledge of the electro-magnetic wave's speed to determine range. The bandwidth of that sampling is inversely proportional to the frequency with which the pulse is sent, known as the Pulse Repetition Frequency (PRF). A low PRF, e.g. 1 kHz, samples the environment with a burst of energy 1000 times per second. The receiver can accurately determine the range if the echo arrives no later than 1 ms after it left. Since the distance traveled is two-way, this amounts to a distance of $c/2000 = 150$ km, using $c$, for the speed of light in a vacuum. Any pulses that arrive after that time will be considered ambiguous in range since it is impossible, without further information, to say from which pulse the echo originated. High-PRF radars have very low unambiguous ranges, but have developed techniques which involve using multiple PRFs and requiring solution of a set of two or more linear congruence relations. These can easily be solved using the Chinese Remainder Theorem.

The second dimension is that of the emitted pulse, also known as slow-time. This clock advances at the speed of the reciprocal of the PRF, known as the pulse repetition interval. This time signal can be processed with a Fourier transform into the frequency domain, where the the energy from scattered returns are binned into Doppler frequencies related to the radial velocity of the object. In the case of bistatic radars, it is actually a sum of the projection of the transmitting platform's velocity onto the angle of emission with the projection of the receiving platforms velocity onto the angle of arrival. The Nyquist sampling rate of these pulses are therefore a function of the maximum speeds of the two platforms. For low-PRF radars, doppler aliasing is common. Similarly, as mentioned above, high-PRF radars have a broad doppler spectrum, but commonly have ambiguous range returns.

The author demonstrates the effects of range ambiguities using a metric known as Improvement Factor (IF). This is defined as the ratio of the adaptive filter's signal-clutter power and the receiver's signal-noise power. An optimal adaptive filter generates unity across the Doppler spectrum, indicating a complete cancellation of the impact from clutter, reducing the problem to one of thermal noise only.

For a bistatic radar, there is a large degradation from the optimal case due to the range independence mentioned in previous reviews. In addition, for a high-PRF radar, there are multiple nulls in the IF spectrum due to clutter echoes arriving at different, pulse-ambiguous, times. The solution presented is simple, if not challenging. Adding an extra dimension to the problem, in the form of a planar array, enables forming additional nulls in the vertical beams. This amounts to moving, for example, from a 12-element $x$-distributed array, to 12 by 8 element, $xy$-distributed array. This change results in a 8x increase in the amount of data generated by the sensor, as well as an 8x increase in the amount of processing throughput required.

The technical contribution of this work is in completing the picture of adaptive bistatic clutter cancellation for STAP processing by including high-PRF range aliasing and low-PRF Doppler aliasing. In each case, the basic bistatic problem is complicated and mitigation involves adding orthogonal degrees of freedom to the sensing modality.

Future work in this area could involve further development of the planar array processing needed to cancel multiple time ground returns, possibly including simulations and comparison of algorithms. This paper was rather abbreviated and seemed to point the reader to a book on the larger subject of Adaptive Processing written by the author.

## Citation
R. Klemm, "Ambiguities in bistatic STAP radar," Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium, 2000. Proceedings. IGARSS 2000. IEEE 2000 International, Honolulu, HI, 2000, pp. 1009-1011 vol.3.


